[Home](./README.md) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Celebration](./celebration.md)  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Obituary](./obituary.md)  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Photos](./photos.md)  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Tributes](./tributes.md)

# DUNCAN, Ronald Sydney (Ron)

Ron passed peacefully surrounded by close family on Friday October 20, 2023.  He had just celebrated his 80th birthday one month earlier and had been living life to the fullest.  Since his cancer diagnosis 2 years ago, he was determined to make the most of his time and enjoyed each day.

Beloved and proud father of Julian Duncan (Jennifer) of Mississauga, ON and Anne Duncan Rastogi (Ravi) of London, ON.  Treasured Granda of Kayla, Heather and Ethan Duncan and Simon and Maya Rastogi. Brother of Charles and Keith Duncan of Kingston, ON.
Ron was a life-long lover of all things food, fishing and fiddling, particularly during his retirement in the vibrant and beautiful city of Victoria, BC. Born in the small town of Dallas in Scotland, he also lived in London England, Sackville New Brunswick and Kingston, London and Port Rowan in Ontario. Ron also had a 2-year stint teaching in China and fully enjoyed several extended stays in Tokyo, Japan with his beloved life partner later in life, Akiko.  He loved travelling and enjoying the local foods of Japan, Europe, the Caribbean and India.  

Ron studied Hotel and Restaurant Management at Ryerson University and met his first wife Sheila Scott in 1965 during a summer work holiday for Sheila. They married in England in 1969 and settled in London, ON.  Ron worked for a couple of years in the hotel industry but decided that teaching was a more stable career for a family. Ron was a teacher and administrator with the Thames Valley District School Board in London, ON for 33 years.  He started as a Culinary Teacher at Thames Secondary School and took on more leadership roles as the Department Head of Culinary Services and then the Technical Director.  After 10 years at Thames S.S. he took on many leadership roles as a well-respected Vice-Principal at HB Beal, Clarke Road and Oakridge Secondary Schools.  He finished his career with Thames Valley in the Adult and Continuing Education Department.  After retiring from the school board he decided to try his hand at restaurant ownership and was the head cook, co-founder and co-owner of The Fish and Chipper in Port Rowan, Ontario, all the while running a bed and breakfast with his partner at the time Laura-Jane Charlton.  Many, many people came regularly for his fresh and perfectly cooked Lake Erie fish and home cut chips.  After that 4 year adventure, he really retired.  

Although Ron loved teaching his family and friends plenty of cooking, driving, fiddle and fishing tips over the years, Ron was also a life-long learner: teaching himself fiddle and fly-tying and learning and then teaching Tai Chi.  Ron was a music lover and particularly LOVED fiddle music.  He was the lead fiddle player in an English Country Dance band in the 80s called New Rigged Ship and played for many different dance events over the years, while his first wife Sheila Scott was the dance caller and his son Julian joined in the band on occasion.  Ron and Sheila were integral members of the vibrant folk scene in London Ontario for several decades and danced with English Country, Scottish Country, Playford and Morris dance groups.  Ron and Sheila parted ways in 1990 but remained good friends.  In his retirement, Ron was an enthusiastic participant in the Victoria fiddle scene, playing with Daniel Lapp’s Folkestra group and attending regular workshops and sessions at the local pubs.  He always loved to bring his fiddle home to Ontario to play some tunes with his kids and grandkids.  He met his final life partner, Akiko, on a cross-Canada train trip in 2003.  They had many visits together between Canada and Japan, married in 2007 and settled together in Victoria.

Throughout his life Ron always appreciated being in nature.  That was where he felt peaceful and very connected to the world.  As a young family, Ron and Sheila enjoyed many years at their family cottage on Stoney Lake with their children and many visiting friends.  Ron also loved to throw packs and a tent in a canoe and head out for short or long portaging trips into the Ontario wilderness with his young family, and later in life he fully enjoyed camper touring with Akiko across Canada and fishing expeditions with Julian and his local fishing friends.  We don’t think anyone loved fishing as much as Ron did.  He became a valued member of the Golden Rods and Reels and The Haig Brown Fishing Club.  A beloved “Gadget Granda” to his five grandkids, they will always remember his teasing, funny jokes and bedtime stories, visits in Ontario and BC and thoughtful cards and gifts.  Very much loved by his children, grandchildren, family and friends,  Ron was a people person and felt blessed to have had so many meaningful connections in his life.   His caring and adventurous spirit lives on in all of us.

The family would like to thank his Victoria friends and family for all their support in the past two years.  He built a wonderful supportive community in Victoria so his kids felt he was well looked after.  Fortunately Ron was able to spend time with his Ontario family: his two children and their spouses and his five grandchildren before he passed.  

A Celebration of Life will take place on Thursday October 26th in Victoria, BC.

In lieu of flowers, please donate to the BC Cancer Foundation at <a href="http://www.bccancer.bc.ca/donate" target="_blank">www.bccancer.bc.ca/donate</a>.